# GPU-RowHammer (34th USENIX Security Symposium)

## Introduction

This is the code artifact for the paper 
**"GPUHammer: Rowhammer Attacks on GPU Memories are Practical"**, presented at [USENIX Security 2025](https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity25)

Authors: Chris S. Lin (University of Toronto), Joyce Qu (University of Toronto), Gururaj Saileshwar (University of Toronto).

## Required Environment
**Run-time Environment:**  We suggest using a Linux distribution compatible with g++-11 or newer.

- Software Dependencies:
   - Anaconda 24.9.2
   - CMake 3.26.4+
   - g++ with C++17 Support
   - Python 3.10+
   - NVIDIA CUDA Driver
   - NVIDIA CUDA Toolkit
   - NVIDIA System Management Interface `nvidia-smi`

- Hardware Dependencies:
   - NVIDIA GPU sm_80+

### Reference Environment
We evaluated our artifacts on the following reference system:

- OS: Ubuntu 20.04.6 LTS
- CPU: AMD Ryzen Threadripper PRO 5945WX 12-Cores
- GPU: NVIDIA RTX A6000 (48 GB GDDR6, sm_80)
- Driver: NVIDIA Driver 545.23.08 (includes nvidia-smi)
- CUDA Toolkit: 12.3
- Compiler: g++ 11.4.90 with C++17 support

## Affected GPUs
- NVIDIA A6000 GPU with 48GB GDDR6

## Steps for Artifact Evaluation

### 1. Clone the Repository
Ensure you have already cloned the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/sith-lab/gpuhammer.git
cd gpuhammer
```

### 2. GPU Setup

For the Rowhammer attack, a prerequiste is having **ECC disabled**. This is already the default setting on many GPUs. But if it is enabled, use the following commands to disable it:
```bash
sudo nvidia-smi -e 0
rmmod nvidia_drm 
rmmod nvidia_modeset
sudo reboot
```

 Our profiling is easier with the persistence mode enabled, and with fixed GPU and memory clock rates, although these are not pre-requisites. The following script performs the above actions:
```bash
# Example usage: 
#  bash ./util/init_cuda.sh <MAX_GPU_CLOCK> <MAX_MEMORY_CLOCK>
bash ./util/init_cuda.sh 1800 7600
```
**MAX_GPU_CLOCK** and **MAX_MEMORY_CLOCK** can be found with `deviceQuery` from CUDA samples. We provide this for A6000 in 'deviceQuery.txt'. 

These changes can be undone with `bash ./util/reset_cuda.sh`.

### 3. Download ImageNet Validation Dataset

Our artifact requires the ImageNet 2012 Validation Dataset, which is available from the official ImageNet website. Please note that downloading requires a (free) ImageNet account — please register at https://www.image-net.org/download-images.php before proceeding.

We require the "Validation images (all tasks)" under Images when inside the ImageNet 2012 DataSet webpage. Please obtain the download link and download it **to the repository root** as follows:

```bash
# Make sure you are downloading the file into the repository root directory
cd gpuhammer
wget <download link>
```

The downloaded file's name should be `ILSVRC2012_img_val.tar`.

### 4. Run the Artifact
Run the following commands to install dependencies, build GPUHammer, and execute experiments.

```bash
cd gpuhammer

# Make sure you set HAMMER_ROOT to the repository root directory
export HAMMER_ROOT=`pwd`
bash ./run_artifact.sh
```

This command will run the following steps:

* [Install Prerequisites and Build](#detailed-instructions-for-building-the-artifact) (~15 mins)

* Run GPUHammer Experiments (~4 days, <1GB disc space)

  ```bash
  # Generate Row Sets (takes ~1 day)
  bash run_row_sets.sh
  # one can also skip the above step if row-sets are already generated by a previous run.
  
  # Reverse Engineering Attack Primitives  (takes <6 hour)
  bash run_fig2.sh
  bash run_fig5_6.sh
  bash run_fig8.sh
  bash run_fig10.sh 
  
  # Rowhammer Campaign with 24-sided hammering on 4 banks (takes ~1 day)
  bash run_t1_t3.sh
  
  # Bit Flip Characterization for our 8 bit-flips on 4 banks (takes <6 hours)
  bash run_fig11.sh        # ~2 hours
  bash run_fig12.sh        # ~4 hours
  
  # Exploit using 4 bit flips on 5 ML models (takes ~1.5 day)
  bash run_fig13_t4.sh
  ```

If a run script is supposed to generate a figure (Figures 2, 5, 6, 8, 10, 11, 12), it is stored in the respective folders: `./results/fig*` . 

The results of the campaign `run_t1_t3.sh` are stored in `./results/campaign` and the respective tables (Table 1 and Table 3) are in `./results/campaign/t1.txt` and `./results/campaign/t3.txt`. 

The results of the exploit (Figure 13 and Table 4) are in `./results/fig13_t4/fig13.pdf` and`./results/fig13_t4/t4.txt`

**NOTE:** We additionally provide sample outputs of all experiments in the folder `./results/sample`.

## Detailed Instructions for Building the Artifact

### Step 1. Installing Prerequisites 
First the script will install RAPIDS RMM and Python dependencies:

```bash
bash ./run_setup.sh
```

If an error occurs during setup, run the following to clean up: `bash ./run_setup.sh clean`

Next, the script enables the RMM development manually when opening a terminal:

```bash
conda init
source activate base
conda activate rmm_dev
```

### Step 2  Build GPUHammer Artifact

```bash
cmake -S ./src -B ./src/out/build
cd ./src/out/build
make
```



## Detailed Instructions for Running GPU Rowhammer Campaign & Exploit

### Step 1: Obtain Row Addresses to Hammer (i.e., Row-Sets)

This step is automatically done by `./run_rowsets.sh`. This uses the script, `./util/run_timing_task.py`, to generate the Row Set of a bank (unique addresses that map to the different rows in the same bank). Example usage of this script is as follows:

```python
# Display available tasks available for row buffer conflict
python3 ./util/run_timing_task.py -h

# Display usage to the specific task
python3 ./util/run_timing_task.py <task> -h
```

To obtain the row-sets we have to (1) Identify tRC, (2) Generate a Conflict Set (addresses that have a row-buffer conflict with a given address), (3) Generate a Row Set (set of addresses mapping to unique rows in a bank)

**1. Identify tRC:** Get a rough idea of the **tRC** (time between two row activations) with the output of `gt` task. After inspecting the file you should be able to observe the difference in latency between row-buffer hits and conflicts. By default, the result is stored in a text `TIME_VALUE.txt` generated by the script. For example, here, we observe tRC is **~43**.

```
python3 ./util/run_timing_task.py gt 
```

Example output:

```
...
328
336
327
338
360
360
```

**2. Generate Conflict Set:** Obtain a **Conflict Set** with the output of `conf_set` task
Conflict set is a list of array offsets (addresses) that map to rows that conflict with the row of a fixed address (reference). By default, the result is stored in a text `CONF_SET.txt` generated by the script.

**NOTE**: When selecting the conflict threshold, due to noise, pick a number lower than the observed **tRC** for better accuracy. We observe on A6000 that values around 25-30ns works well. 

```bash
python3 ./util/run_timing_task.py conf_set \
--threshold 27 \
--step 256 \
--it 15
```

Example output:

```
852224
852736
868352
868864
895232
895744
911360
911872
```

**3. Generate Row Set:** Obtain the **Row Set** for the bank corresponding to step 2 with the output of `row_set` task. 

Row Set is a matrix of offsets, where each line lists the address offsets mapping to the same DRAM row. By picking one adddress from each line, we can map to unique rows in the DRAM bank. By default, the result is stored in a text `ROW_SET.txt` generated by the script.

```bash
python3 ./util/run_timing_task.py row_set CONF_SET.txt \
--threshold 27 \
--it 15
```

Example output:

```
852224	852736	868352  ...
1153280	1153792	1169408  ...
...
```

**(Optionally) 4. Bank Set:** Obtain a **Bank Set** with the output of `bank_set` task. Bank Set has the offsets that correspond to different banks in the GPU. It is recommended that you add a large _size_ and test a small _max_ at first, as the number of banks is undecidable for this program. By default, the result is stored in a text `BANK_SET.txt` generated by the script.

```bash
python3 ./util/run_timing_task.py bank_set \
--threshold 27 \
--max 5 \
--step 256 \
--it 15
```

Example output:

```
0
256
1024
1280
2048
```



### Step 2: Observe Correct Delay for Alignment

This step helps to obtain the exact delay to be added to synchronize the aggressor pattern with DRAM REF commands. A helpful script, `run_delay.sh`, is available in the `util` folder. We assume the row set files are stored at `./results/row_sets/ROW_SET_<bank_id>.txt`, and the hammering results is dumped in `./src/log/`. Please update the relevant variables in the script, specifically the `bank_id` and file locations. You can run the script with:

```bash
bash ./util/run_delay.sh
```

You can visualize the result by running 
```bash
# Example usage:
# python3 ./util/plot_delay.py <iterations> <trefi> <bank_offset> <num_aggressors>
python3 ./util/plot_delay.py 10000 1407 0 24
```

The first parameter is the number of iterations, which should match the `iterations` variable in the bash script. The second parameter is the `tREFI` period in nanoseconds, which is 1407 for the A6000. The fourth and onward parameters specify the number of aggressors. You can plot multiple aggressor configurations on the same plot.

On the output plot, observe that there is a flat-lined area in the middle. This is where synchronization occurs, and the delays in that area are optimal.



### Step 3: Profile for Bit-flips

The helper script `run_campaign.py` is available in the `util` folder. Again, we assume the row set files exist, so please update the relevant variables. In addition, fill in the `delay` configuration you obtained from the previous step in `results/delay/delays.txt` by adding a line in the form `<bank_id>, <number of aggressors>, <delay_amount>`. You can run the script with the code below to start a campaign on four banks (A, B, C, D) with 24-sided hammering.

```bash
python3 run_campaign.py --bank_ids A B C D --num_agg 24
```

The result of your hammering can be found at `./results/campaign/bank_<offset>/<#_of_aggressors>agg_<vic_pat><agg_pat>_log.txt`. Any bitflips will be reported in the form `Bit-flip detected!` in the log file. 

### Campaign Configurations

In our systematic study, we ran attacks with `num_agg = 8, 12, 16, 20, 24` and `skip_step = 3`. We launched campaigns with both gridded victim data patterns. (`vic_pat=55, agg_pat=aa` and `vic_pat=aa, agg_pat=55` ) For each configuration, we used the following setups:
- **8-sided**: 8 warps, 1 thread, 3 rounds
- **12-sided**: 6 warps, 2 threads, 2 rounds
- **16-sided**: 8 warps, 2 threads, 1 round
- **20-sided**: 10 warps, 2 threads, 1 round
- **24-sided**: 8 warps, 3 threads, 1 round

For our artifact evaluation, our scripts only perform hammering with 24-sided due to time limitations. But the script can be modified run campaigns for other configurations as well.

<!-- Each hammer takes approximately 400 ms to run if we treat the entire bank as victim rows. Alternatively, to speed up the hammers, you can comment and uncomment some code according to line 110 & 111 of `./src/hammer/gpu_hammer.cu`. This verifies only the rows in the neighborhood of the hammered aggressors for bitflips, reducing the time for a hammer kernel to around 200 ms. With this setup, it takes approximately 5 hours to complete a sweep on one bank with a single `num_agg` configuration for both data patterns. -->

#### Existing Bitflips

Reproducing bitflips from our A6000 can be done with `./util/run_known_flips.sh`. You can find the bitflip results in the folder `./results/sample_bitflips`.

```bash
bash ./util/run_known_flips.sh
```

### Step 4: Perform Time Sliced Exploit

By default our scripts execute the exploits with the bit flips we already discovered. But one can modify this to use new bit flips discovered in the campaigns. Once you have found some **0->1** bit-flips that map to the Most Significant Bit in FP16 (i.e. bit location 6 in an the second byte) , you can run an exploit, targeting these bit-flips in a ML model weight. We provide sample exploit scripts, `run_hammer_manual_<bitflip>.sh` in `data_scripts/fig13_t4` that automates this process. 

#### Finding the Proper Aggressor Row for Victim Row

When a bit-flip is observed, as shown in the paper, it can only be trigger by aggressor rows on one side. Once you have observed a set of aggressors (As) that triggers the bitflip in a victim (V), usually in the form of:

```
... A - - - A - V - A - - - A ...
```

You can find out which aggressor triggered it by shifting the pattern by changing `min_rowid`:

```
Left Aggressor:   ... A - - - A - V
Right Aggressor:  V - A - - - A ...
```

#### Aggressor on the Left/Top of the Victim

To exploit given a left side aggressor, we can create a script based on either the `run_hammer_manual_B1.sh` or `run_hammer_manual_D1.sh`. You will need to modify the following parameters based on information of your observed bitflip.

- **aggressor_row:** Row id of the aggressor row left of the victim.
- **victim_row:** Row id of the victim.
- **victim_row_offset:** Offset of the victim row in Row Set. (Note Row id starts at 0, but Row Set text file line number may read starting line 1)
- **aggressor_row_offset:** Offset of the aggressor row in Row Set. (Note Row id starts at 0, but Row Set text file line number may read starting line 1)
- **store_dir:** Location to store your exploit results.

```bash
bash ./data_scripts/fig13_t4/run_hammer_manual_<name>.sh
```

You may find the results of your exploits in your `store_dir`, listed in `<model>.txt`.

#### Aggressor on the Right/Bottom of the Victim

To exploit given a right side aggressor, we can create a script based on either the `run_hammer_manual_B2.sh` or `run_hammer_manual_D3.sh`. You will need to modify the following parameters based on information of your observed bitflip. The parameters are slightly different than what you have for left side:

- **aggressor_row:** Row id of the aggressor row left of the victim.
- **victim_byte_offset:** The exact byte offset of the bitflip.
- **aggressor_row_offset:** Offset of the aggressor row in Row Set. (Note Row id starts at 0, but Row Set text file line number may read starting line 1)
- **store_dir:** Location to store your exploit results.

```bash
bash ./data_scripts/fig13_t4/run_hammer_manual_<name>.sh
```

You may find the results of your exploits in your `store_dir`, listed in `<model>.txt`.

#### Exploit with Existing Bitflips

The scripts in `./data_scripts/fig13_t4` will run the exploit on ImageNet models with specific bitflips we found in our A6000 GPU (B1, B2, D1, and D3). The model accuracy will be recorded in `./results/fig13_t4/<bitflip>`.

```bash
bash ./data_scripts/fig13_t4/run_hammer_manual_<bitflip>.sh
```

This entire exploit with 4 bit-flips should take less than 1 day.

## Folder Structure

- `src/` — Source code of GPUHammer, including CUDA and C++ implementations.
- `util/` — Utility scripts for GPU setup, delay tuning, and campaign orchestration.
- `data_scripts/fig*/` — Scripts for obtaining raw data for each figure.
- `plot_scripts` — Scripts for generating plots from experiment results.
- `results/fig*/` — Output directory for experiment results, figures, logs, and sample outputs.
- `run_fig*.sh` scripts in the repository root — Entry-point scripts for running specific experiments and reproducing figures.


## Additional Notes

### Clock Rate Note
The clock rate output by the console is always the maximum clock rate. Set the lgc value in init_cuda to >= maximum clock rate and the GPU will adjust to maximum clock rate.

### Compiler Settings Note
The most stable compiler setting is this, which disables all GPU kernel optimizations. **Xcicc** are the frontend pipelines and **Xptxas** are the backend pipelines (hence PTX). 
   ```cmake 
   set(CMAKE_CUDA_FLAGS "${CMAKE_CUDA_FLAGS} --generate-line-info -O3 -Xcicc -O0 -Xptxas -O0")
   ```
This is the setting that gives the lowest latency while not optimizing away our memory accesses. **Xptxas** gives the most performance increase since we are mostly using PTX and register allocation is our biggest concern. Turning either one past **O3** on its own will not optimize the access away, but with the other one past **O2**, it will be gone. They must have some mechanism at work collaborating the two, but it is not a major concern to us. 
   ```cmake 
   set(CMAKE_CUDA_FLAGS "${CMAKE_CUDA_FLAGS} --generate-line-info -O3 -Xcicc -O1 -Xptxas -O3")
   ```
